>> Steve Kinney: So some other major
areas, just as we take a tour of
the editor itself,
is we do have this fun source control tab
where you get a little bit of a GUI,
graphical user interface,
for those of you keeping track at home,
for managing Git.
I really like this,
the other option that you can use, too,
is that GitHub Desktop is also
another graphical version.
I personally tend to use this
not because it is better, but
because I've used it for
as long as I can remember.
But there are options.
So the nice part about this is,
some of you, not me,
have really good Git hygiene,
and I'm proud of you.
And you make very small
commits the whole way through.
Some of you like to see the world burn and
just do the fix stuff commit, or
the make it work.
Or I hate programming commit
put in at 2 AM, I've been you.
Where I aspire to be, knowing that I will
never be that perfect Git practitioner,
where I aspire to be is,
after I've realized that I've gone too far
down the rabbit hole with making a commit,
trying to at least do several small
commits out of my big mess, right?
Which, can you do from the command line?
Yes, that's a full course in and
of itself,
try to do all that from the command line.
If you wanna do it in VS Code, what's
cool about that is you can basically,
as you kind of go to stage stuff,
you can see the various commits and
stuff that you've changed.
And choose to stage various
different parts, right?
So here you can see some of the things
that I've changed in this file,
in this case, the add async,
so on and so forth.
You can also go ahead and open a file,
discard the changes in a particular file,
stage the changes in one file.
So if I, let's say I made a change,
I honestly did what should have been
seven commits,
I can go check in a file at a time.
I could say hey, actually, I only want
a few of these lines, so on and so forth.
And kind of reverse engineer being
granular with it when I wasn't in
the beginning, yeah?
>> Speaker 2: I don't know if
you covered this already, but
how did you get it to be not split view
in the Git diff, the difference file?
I think the default is like, it gives you-
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah, no, no,
like every other time-
>> Speaker 3: You can click on the file,
though, in the changes bucket.
>> Steve Kinney: What's that?
>> Speaker 3: You have to click on
the file to get the split view.
>> Speaker 2: I see.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah,
this is when I'm in the file.
>> Speaker 3: It's there.
So they have 1, 2, 3, 4,
5 on your line numbers there,
spread that out to the right.
>> Steve Kinney: No, I think it's just
a simple enough one that it compacted it
down.
I think if I had a bigger file,
it would have been split.
I think this one's so dumb and simple.
But again, I can't split it here, But
here are the two different line numbers.
But the important thing that I can do is,
you can see on any given one of these
diffs, on a bigger file, you will see two
of them side-by-side, or more changes.
I can either revert just these two lines,
or let's say I made two
different important changes that
should have been different commits.
I can stage, obviously,
I wouldn't want to do it in this case, but
I could stage just this line, and
I can commit them kinda separately, right?
So if I made a big mess,
I can kinda go in there visually, and
you can do something very similar.
Not that we're talking too much about,
no, not comma, I didn't want comma.
In the GitHub editor as well, where you
can select and deselect some lines.
And break apart the commit, and
pretend you were a better person
than you actually are, right?
And what you actually want to stage and
not stage.
As you can see,
there's other stuff you can do here.
You can amend to the last commit.
If it's not dirty, in this case, so
if I go ahead and I reset all my changes.
So I can do effectively what is not
dissimilar from a git reset hard.
And I can do it for all the files,
I can do it for one of the files, right?
So on and so forth.
But you can kind of see that,
here if we discard all the files,
and I can go ahead and do a rebase, or
merge in a branch, or make a new branch.
Or if I have the Github one,
open a pull request from here as well.
And you can do a bunch of
the source control stuff in here.
I use a mix of both a graphical one and
the command line, right?
Whatever's easier,
I'm not religious in either direction.
Sometimes it's easier
to commit line by line.
Sometimes I know what I did and
don't tell anyone, git add dot, it's good.
And I'll stage them together, yeah?
>> Speaker 4: I think someone mentioned,
Chet mentioned the little icons in the
upper right corner can do the splitting.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah,
let's make a change, there it is.
Normally, that is how it looks.
I think it's possibly cuz I
am between the font size, so
we can all see I'm very zoomed in, right?
So yeah, you can also check out there,
but yeah,
this tab will have most
of the things you need.
These little fun stars
over here will also,
so I can stage this, and it will use AI to
come up with a commit message for me.
Honestly, until I was preparing for
this course,
I never even bothered to click that
thing to find out what it did.
There's something very special about
preparing for a workshop where you
start clicking on all sorts of things
you never thought to click on.
And I found out that stars mean AI.
So, yeah, I think I just made the earth
one one-hundredth of a degree
hotter every time I click that one.
So there's that, but it wasn't bad.
Cool, cool, cool,
I'm trying to think what else.
Kind of related to,
if I have multiple languages,
you might have multiple repos in a single
project because you hate yourself.
You can see the multiple
repositories that you have.
If you have that,
it's cuz somebody else did that to you,
I know, it's fine, cool.
So what else do we have
about the source URL?
Like I said, yeah,
one could go much deeper,
if I'm trying to go to most of
the things that we care about.
You can also see you've got to get history
here as well that you can kind of take
a look at and
do all sorts of fun stuff with.
This is obviously not a particularly like
it's me adding an extension example,
so on and so forth.
There is a library called GitLens,
which will make you a bad person.
Do I have it installed right now?
Let's see, I did uninstall a lot of stuff.
>> Steve Kinney: So GitLens,
again, it's an incredibly
powerful extension that is really good.
But it comes with one warning label on it,
which is, it does a lot of things.
One of the things that you'll
see is down at the bottom.
It puts a git blame in there, which is
fine when you're working by yourself,
but will turn you into a bad person
when working with a team, right?
There's something about seeing,
cuz sometimes that's just
the person who moved the file.
They didn't write that code,
they just moved the file, and
now they're forever get blamed.
But it doesn't always
awake the best version of
myself when I'm looking at
something a little bit gnarly and
I can see one of my coworkers'
names on the git blame.
I don't like who I become, but I would say
this is one that whenever you see anyone
else using VS Code, you usually see that
at the bottom, cuz everyone else uses it.
So you can decide whether or
not that's a path you wanna go down to.
As you can see, I actively uninstalled it,
cuz I'm also the manager.
And again,
it doesn't make me a good person.
And I need to not be able to
git blame people that easily.